[Learn] Abstraction and Encapsulation pathway (#875)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/learn/abstraction-encapsulation/component-resources/index.md

A resource in Pulumi terms is basically a building block. That building block
could be a base component like an `s3.Bucket` object that's managed by external
providers like your favorite cloud provider. Alternatively, a resource could be
a group of other resources that implements abstraction and encapsulation for
reasons like defining a common pattern. This latter type of resource is called a
_Component Resource_ in Pulumi's terminology.

## Deciding to create a component resource

Why would you make a component resource instead of just a "simple" logical
grouping that you can call and use? A component resource shows up in the Pulumi
ecosystem just like any other resource. That means it has a trackable state,
appears in diffs, and has a name field you can reference that refers to the
entire grouping.

We've actually already started creating a component resource in the last part
when we made a new class that built up an `s3.Bucket` and an `s3.BucketPolicy`
with a `define_policy` function. Let's now turn that logical grouping into an
actual component resource.

## Converting to a component resource

When we're converting to a component resource, we're subclassing (or composing

> from an anonymous field, if you're into Go) the `ComponentResource` so that our

Reviewer: I think it's ok to ignore Go and just focus on Python since the implementation is pretty different in each language IMO.

properly.

```python
import ...

class OurBucketComponent(pulumi.ComponentResource):
    def __init__(self, name, policy_name='default', opts=None):
        super().__init__('pkg:index:OurBucketComponent', name, None, opts)
        child_opts = pulumi.ResourceOptions(parent=self)
        policy_list = {
            'default': '{...}',
            'locked' : '{...}',
            'permissive': '{...}'
        }
        bucket = aws.s3.bucket(name)
        def define_policy(policy_name):
            try:
                if policy_name in policy_list.keys():
                    json_data = policy_list[f"{policy_name}"]
                return json.dumps(json_data)
            except Exception as err:
                raise err
        bucket_policy = aws_classic.s3.BucketPolicy(
            name,
            bucket=bucket.id,
            policy=bucket.arn.apply(lambda arn: define_policy(policy_name)),
            opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(parent=bucket)
        )
        self.register_outputs({
            "bucket_name": bucket.bucket_name
        })
```

Within `super()`'s init, we pass in a name for the resource, which we recommend

> being of the form `<package>:<module>:<type>` to avoid type conflicts since it's

Reviewer: Suggest using more prescriptive language, e.g. "which should be"

being registered alongside other resources like the Bucket resource we're
calling (`aws:s3:Bucket`).

That last call, `self.register_outputs({})`, passes Pulumi the expected outputs
so Pulumi can read the results of the creation or update of a component resource

> just like any other resource, so don't forget it! You can register default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
just like any other resource, so be sure not to omit this step! You can register default
```

outputs using this call, as well. It's not hard to imagine we will always want
the bucket name for our use case, so we pass that in as an always-given output

> for our component resource.

Reviewer 2: It'd be _really_ nice to see how this looks in an output or in the Console somehow, vs. how things look without it.

Author: I think I'm going to get this out with the next round when we've got the TS support in. I'm just not sure I'm doing it right, and there's not a lot of Python examples :/

        self.name_me = name_me
        self.policy_name = policy_name
        self.bucket = aws_native.s3.Bucket(f"{self.name_me}")
        self.policy_list = {
            'default': default,
            'locked': '{...}',
            'permissive': '{...}'
        }
        self.register_outputs({
            "bucket_name": self.bucket.bucket_name
        })

    def define_policy(self):
        policy_name = self.policy_name
        try:
            json_data = self.policy_list[f"{policy_name}"]
            policy = self.bucket.arn.apply(lambda arn: json.dumps(json_data).replace('fakeobjectresourcething', arn))
            return policy
        except KeyError as err:
            add_note = "Policy name needs to be 'default', 'locked', or 'permissive'"
            print(f"Error: {add_note}. You used {policy_name}.")
            raise

    def set_policy(self):
        bucket_policy = aws_classic.s3.BucketPolicy(
            f"{self.name_me}-policy",
            bucket=self.bucket.id,
            policy=self.define_policy(),
            opts=pulumi.ResourceOptions(parent=self.bucket)
        )
        return bucket_policy

```

> Within `super()`'s init, we pass in a name for the resource, which we recommend being of the form `<package>:<module>:<type>` to avoid type conflicts since it's being registered alongside other resources like the Bucket resource we're calling (`aws:s3:Bucket`).

Author: :100:

> That last call in the init, `self.register_outputs({})`, passes Pulumi the expected outputs so Pulumi can read the results of the creation or update of a component resource just like any other resource, so don't forget that call! You can register default outputs using this call, as well. It's not hard to imagine we will always want the bucket name for our use case, so we pass that in as an always-given output for our component resource.

Author: 💯

> From here, you can deploy it and get your custom resource appearing in the resource tree in your terminal! You can also share it with others so they can import the resource and use it without ever needing to understand all of the underlying needs of a standard storage system on AWS.

Author: Oh weird, that didn't happen locally 🤔  I'll fix it. Thanks!

---

Congratulations! You've now finished this pathway on abstraction and encapsulation in Pulumi programs! In this pathway, you've learned about thinking of code in abstract forms, wrapping up logical groupings of code to make reuse easier, and building with component resources to make those logical groupings something that Pulumi recognizes.

> Go build new things, and watch this space for more learning experiences with Pulumi!

Reviewer 2: A link to more example of what this looks like would give those who want to learn more on this somewhere to go from here. What do you think?

Author: :100: Good idea
